# LifeHistoryTradeoffs
 
Github repository for manuscript titled: 'Meta-analysis of brood size manipulation experiments reveals trade-offs between current and future reproduction in birds'

**Co-authors**
Rebekah A. McKinnon
Sheeraja Sridharan
Malgorzata (Losia) Lagisz
Kimberley J. Mathot

**Research Abstract**
Organisms must allocate resources among growth, survival and reproduction. Because resources are finite, this inevitably leads to trade-offs. Resource invested in growth cannot be invested in reproduction, and resource invested in current reproduction is no longer available for future reproduction. Life-history theory posits that trade-offs between current and future reproduction should be mediated by the relative costs and benefits associated with current versus future reproduction. When the value of the current brood is high (e.g., brood size is large), parents should invest more, but when the value of the current brood is low (e.g., brood size is small), parents should conserve investment for anticipated future reproductive opportunities to maximise lifetime reproductive success. The resolution of the trade-off between current and future reproduction is also expected to be shaped by expected future reproduction (called residual reproductive value, or RRV). Longer-lived species, which have more lifetime reproductive opportunities, pay greater costs when compromising future reproduction, and therefore, are expected to show smaller increased in current reproduction in response to increased value of current brood Although trade-offs are fundamental to life-history theory, empirical studies have often failed to find support for these trade-offs. The lack of support for trade-offs has been suggested to be due in part to inappropriate study designs. Specifically, trade-offs should be investigated using experimental designs that allow within-individual changes in allocation to current to future reproduction to be disentangled from among-individual differences in total resources available to allocate to reproduction. Here, we report the results of a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental studies in birds in which brood size (and thus, brood value) was experimentally manipulated (i.e., enlarged, reduced) and parental investment decisions were recorded (e.g., provisioning rate). We extracted 301 estimates from 52 studies in 26 avian species. Consistent with the notion that trade-offs between current and future reproduction mediate parental investment decisions, we e found that investment in the current brood increases when brood size was experimentally enlarged, and decreases when brood size was experimentally reduced. We also tested whether the response to brood manipulations was mediated by species longevity, based on the assumption that species longevity was a useful proxy for RRV. We found no support for the role of species longevity in mediating these responses, however, studies in long-lived species were under-represented in available studies, which may have limited our ability to detect effects of longevity. Our key finding, that parental provisioning is strongly affected by experimental brood size manipulations, is significant because it provides strong and general support for the role of trade-offs in shaping parental investment decisions.
